overly friendly and chatty
suspicious and guarded
arrogant and condescending
scatterbrained and forgetful
sleazy and flirtatious
gruff and no-nonsense
eccentric and quirky
constantly haggling over prices
extremely apathetic or disinterested
always pushing particular items or products
seemingly omniscient or all-knowing
secretive and mysterious
possessed by a ghost or other entity
incredibly wealthy and extravagant
always accompanied by a pet or animal companion.
speaking in rhymes all the times
in possession of a pet monkey that steals items
communicating soley through interpretive dance
a sentient plant that can only communicate through smells and colors
wearing a costume of their favorite animal
experiencing a split personality and switches between being extremely friendly and hostile
in possession of a collection of creepy dolls and insists they aren't all alive
in possession of a magical item that causes random transformations
in the presence of an imaginary friend that they constantly talk to
Speaking in riddles and refuses to sell anything unless the players solve a riddle
a ghost that can only be seen by some of the players
suffering an intense fear of a specific color and refuses to let anything of that color in their shop
in possession of a magical jukebox that plays music that predicts the future
actually a dragon in disguise
an fixated state with puns and incorporates them into everything they say
in possession of a pocket dimension in their shop that they can pull items from
speaking in an exaggerated French accent and constantly offers the players croissants and coffee
suffering from a bad case of short-term memory loss and forgets what they're selling
actually an extraterrestrial being that crash-landed on the planet and started a shop to blend in with the locals.
always accompanied by a bodyguard or hired muscle
offering discounts to customers who can beat them in a game or challenge
extremely superstitious and refuses to sell certain items on certain days or times
constantly snacking on food while working
blessed with a tendency to break into song and dance while working
in possession of a cursed object that causes chaos and mischief in the shop
always surrounded by a cloud of smoke or mist that never dissipates
in possession of a powerful artifact that attracts unwanted attention from powerful beings
somehow able to predict the future or read people's thoughts
refusing to sell anything to anyone who doesn't pass a test of their choosing
in possession of a hidden room or secret back entrance to the shop
in a rivalry with another shopkeeper in town, and will do anything to outsell them
secretly a member of a secret society or cult, and uses the shop as a front
obsessed with cleanliness and hygiene, and requires customers to wear protective gear while browsing the shop
in possession of a cursed or haunted cash register that always gives incorrect change
a retired adventurer or hero, and has many rare and exotic items from their travels
reputed to be a reliable source of information or rumors in the town
only willing to sell items to customers who can prove their worth or loyalty to a certain cause or organization.
in possession of a third eye that can see into other dimensions and offers items from those realms.
a gnome that has a shop in a tree and only sells items that are grown or crafted by the local forest creatures.
in possession of a cursed prosthetic arm that has a mind of its own and is always trying to sell items to the customers.
a vampire that only opens the shop at night and has a special section for enchanted blood vials.
a genie that grants wishes in exchange for rare magical items.
a were-creature that transforms into a different animal every day and only sells items related to that animal.
in possession of a shop that's actually a giant snail shell that moves around the town and has secret compartments filled with rare items.
in possession of a collection of magical potions that change color and flavor every time they're brewed.
a time traveler that has items from different eras and dimensions.
in possession of a collection of living plants that move and talk, and only sells items that have been blessed by them.
a dragon that has a shop in a cave filled with treasure and only sells items that have been tested by fire.
in possession of a mirror that shows a person's deepest desires and only sells items that can help them achieve those desires.
a ghost that only appears to customers that have suffered a great loss and has items that can help them find closure.
in possession of a shop that's actually a floating airship that travels between different kingdoms and dimensions, and only sells items that are unique to each place.
in possession of a collection of cursed weapons and armor that can only be lifted by those with pure intentions.
a faerie that has a shop in a mushroom ring and only sells items that have been enchanted with faerie magic.
in possession of a shop that's actually a portal to a different realm, and only sells items that are rare or forbidden in that realm.
a half-demon that has a shop in a cave filled with lava and only sells items that have been forged with demon magic.
in possession of a collection of ancient artifacts that are said to contain the essence of long-forgotten gods and heroes.
always wearing a different hat every time the players visit
in possession of a magical talking parrot that repeats everything they say
in possession of a collection of enchanted brooms that sweep the shop on their own
constantly snacking on bizarre and exotic foods from around the world
in possession of a side business selling "useless" trinkets and gadgets that are actually quite useful in unexpected ways
in possession of a magical mirror that shows the customers their "true selves"
insisting on telling long, elaborate stories about every item in the shop
in possession of a habit of accidentally casting spells when they get excited or emotional
in possession of a pet dragon that helps run the shop and occasionally causes chaos
constantly singing a catchy jingle to advertise their shop
in possession of a magical hat that can change its shape and function depending on the situation
speaking in an overly formal and flowery language reminiscent of Shakespearean English
in possession of a mysterious teleportation device that can send the players to other parts of the world
in possession of a secret room in the back filled with candy and sweets that they only reveal to their favorite customers.
a shape-shifting creature that takes on the form of each customer that enters the shop.
able to communicate telepathically with customers, but insists on speaking aloud.
in possession of a magical third eye that can see into the future, but only if the customer performs a specific task first.
a time traveler who has items from different eras and dimensions.
able to manipulate reality through their thoughts and emotions, resulting in unpredictable effects on the items in their shop.
possessed by a cursed item that causes those who touch it to fall under a random magical enchantment.
actually a swarm of tiny magical creatures that form a humanoid shape to interact with customers.
in possession of a magical tattoo that animates and speaks to customers, offering advice or warnings about the items for sale.
able to summon items from other planes of existence, but each time they do so, they risk opening a portal to a dangerous realm.
a magical construct brought to life by a wizard's experiment, with a limited lifespan and a desire to experience as much as possible in the time they have.
in possession of a talking magical familiar that hovers around the shop, providing commentary and opinions on the items for sale.
in possession of a sentient plant growing in the center of the shop that produces magical fruit with unpredictable effects.
Pin possesion of a magical mirror that shows customers their greatest desires, but also reveals their deepest fears.
able to make items disappear and reappear at will, but can't always control where they end up.
in possession of a magical set of scales that can determine the value of any item, but requires a customer to sacrifice something of equal value in return.
possessed by a mischievous spirit that likes to play pranks on customers
able to communicate with plants and only sells products that are ethically sourced and sustainable
running a shop that is only accessible through dreams or astral projection
in possession of a magical mirror that shows customers their true selves and only sells items that will help them improve
obsessed with collecting cursed objects and insists on selling them despite the dangers
actually a group of tiny fairies in a trench coat, running the shop as a collective
able to predict the future and only sells items that will be useful to customers in upcoming events
selling items that have been enchanted with temporary magical effects, such as invisibility or levitation
possessed by the spirit of a deceased hero and only sells items that will aid in heroic deeds
in possession of a potion that can temporarily swap customers' bodies with other creatures, like dragons or unicorns
able to speak to ghosts and only sells items that will help customers communicate with the afterlife
running a shop that's actually a living creature, like a giant snail or sentient tree
in possession of a spell book that can teach customers new magical abilities, but at a high cost
able to see into alternate realities and only sells items that are unique to those dimensions
possessed by a time-traveling spirit and only sells items that will aid in navigating different time periods